*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 71160 ***






  Transcriber’s Note
  Italic text displayed as: _italic_
  Bold text displayed as: =bold=




[Illustration:

  Homemade
  Candy—Sweet
  and Dandy]


_Whether you take candymaking seriously or like to make it only for
special occasions, you will find the recipes for the most popular
homemade candy in this folder. They were developed in the Best Foods
Karo Kitchens, where candymaking is taken seriously. Karo syrup in
the candy mixture helps to give a smooth, creamy texture as in fudge,
a soft chewy texture as in taffy or a crisp non-sticky texture as in
peanut brittle or candy apples._


Crazy Crunch

  1⅓ cups sugar
  1 cup Nucoa or Mazola margarine
  ½ cup Karo light or dark corn syrup
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  8 cups popped corn
  ⅔ cup toasted pecans
  1⅓ cups toasted almonds

Combine sugar, margarine and corn syrup in 2 quart saucepan. Bring
to boil over medium heat, stirring constantly. Continue boiling,
stirring occasionally, 10 to 15 minutes or until mixture turns a
light caramel color (290°F.). Remove from heat; stir in vanilla. Pour
syrup over popped corn and nuts on baking sheet. Toss with two large
spoons until popped corn and nuts are coated. Spread out to dry.
Break into pieces and store in tightly covered container or plastic
bag. Makes about 1¾ pounds.

[Illustration: flowers]


Candied Walnuts

  1 cup sugar
  ¼ cup Karo light corn syrup
  ⅓ cup water
  1 teaspoon rum extract
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 cups walnut pieces

Combine sugar, light corn syrup and water in a 2-quart saucepan.
Stirring constantly, cook over medium heat until sugar is dissolved
and mixture comes to a boil. Continue cooking, stirring occasionally,
until temperature reaches 235°F. or until a small amount of mixture
dropped into very cold water forms a soft ball. Remove from heat. Add
rum extract, salt and walnuts. Stir until mixture begins to thicken
and turn white. Pour onto well greased baking sheet. Using 2 forks
separate into clusters. Cool and store in an airtight container.
Makes 1 pound.


Pralines

  1 pound light brown sugar
  1 (5⅓-ounce) can evaporated milk
  2 tablespoons Karo light corn syrup
  ¼ cup Mazola or Nucoa margarine
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  1½ cups pecan halves

Combine sugar, evaporated milk and corn syrup in 2-quart saucepan.
Stirring constantly, cook over medium heat until mixture comes to
a boil. Continue cooking, stirring occasionally, until temperature
reaches 238°F. or until a small amount of mixture dropped into very
cold water forms a soft ball. Remove from heat. Add margarine; do not
stir. Cool to lukewarm (110°F.). Add vanilla and beat until creamy.
Stir in pecans. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto waxed paper. Shape with
a spoon into a 2½-inch circle, spreading pecans. Allow to remain
undisturbed until the pralines are firm and sugared. Makes 1½ pounds.

[Illustration: flowers]


Old Fashioned Popcorn Balls

  1 cup Karo light or dark corn syrup
  1 cup firmly packed brown sugar
  ¼ cup water
  1 teaspoon vinegar
  2 tablespoons Mazola or Nucoa margarine
  2 quarts unsalted popped corn

Combine corn syrup, brown sugar, water and vinegar in saucepan.
Stirring constantly, cook over medium heat until mixture comes to
a boil. Continue cooking, stirring occasionally, until temperature
reaches 260°F., or until small amount of mixture dropped into very
cold water forms a ball which is hard enough to hold its shape, yet
plastic. Remove from heat. Quickly add margarine; blend. Slowly pour
over popped corn in large bowl, mixing well. Shape into balls, using
as little pressure as possible. (Grease hands, if desired.) Makes 15
(2½-inch) balls.

Pink Cinnamon Popcorn Balls: Follow recipe for Old Fashioned Popcorn
Balls, using light corn syrup and substituting granulated sugar for
brown sugar. Add ¼ cup red cinnamon candies to syrup when mixture
boils.

Pastel Popcorn Balls: Follow recipe for Pink Cinnamon Popcorn Balls,
omitting red cinnamon candies. When adding margarine, add 2 teaspoons
vanilla and enough food coloring for desired shade.


Fondant

  ⅓ cup Nucoa or Mazola margarine
  ½ cup Karo light corn syrup
  1 pound confectioners sugar, sifted
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Mix together margarine, corn syrup and 2 cups sugar in 3-quart
saucepan. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until mixture
comes to full boil. Stir in remaining sugar and vanilla. Remove from
heat; stir until mixture holds shape. Pour into greased baking pan.
Cool just enough to handle. Knead with lightly greased hands until
smooth. (If candy hardens too much before kneading, work with spoon,
then knead.) Knead in any desired flavoring and coloring. Shape into
small patties, balls or use as filling for nuts, dates or apricots.
Makes about 1⅓ pounds.

[Illustration: flowers]


Divinity

  2½ cups sugar
  ½ cup Karo light corn syrup
  ½ cup water
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 egg whites
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  1 cup coarsely chopped walnuts or pecans (optional)

Mix together sugar, corn syrup, water and salt in 2-quart saucepan.
Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture comes to
boil. Reduce heat; cook without stirring until temperature reaches
248°F., or until a small amount of mixture dropped into very cold
water forms a firm ball which does not flatten on removal from
water. Just before temperature reaches 248°F., beat egg whites in
large bowl until stiff but not dry. Beating constantly, on high
speed of electric mixer, slowly pour about ½ the hot syrup over
egg whites. Then cook remaining syrup to 272°F., or until a small
amount separates into threads which are hard but not brittle when
dropped into very cold water. Beating constantly, pour hot syrup over
first mixture about 1 tablespoon at a time, beating well after each
addition. Continue beating until mixture begins to lose its gloss and
a small amount of mixture holds soft peak when dropped from spoon.
(If mixture becomes too stiff for mixer, beat with wooden spoon.) Mix
in vanilla and nuts. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto waxed paper. Makes 1¼
pounds or 48 pieces.


Candy Apples

  8 medium red apples
  8 flat wooden skewers or spoons
  2 cups sugar
  1 cup Karo light corn syrup
  ½ cup water
  ¼ cup (1¾-ounce bottle) red cinnamon candies
  10 drops red food coloring (optional)

Wash and dry apples; remove stems and insert skewers into stem ends.
Combine sugar, light corn syrup and water in heavy 2-quart saucepan.
Stirring constantly, cook over medium heat until mixture boils and
sugar is dissolved. Then cook, without stirring, until temperature
reaches 250°F. or until small amount of syrup dropped into very cold
water forms a ball which is hard enough to hold its shape, yet plastic.
Add cinnamon candies and continue cooking to 285°F. or until small
amount of syrup dropped into very cold water separates into threads
which are hard, but not brittle. Remove from heat. Stir in red food
coloring, if desired. Hold each apple by its skewer and quickly twirl
in syrup, tilting pan to cover apple with syrup. Remove apple from
syrup; allow excess to drip off, then twirl to spread syrup smoothly
over apple. Place on lightly greased baking sheet to cool. Store in
cool place. Makes 8 candy apples.

[Illustration: flowers]


Chewy Bars

  ¾ cup Mazola or Nucoa margarine
  ½ cup granulated sugar
  ½ cup firmly packed brown sugar
  ½ cup Karo dark corn syrup
  1 tablespoon vanilla
  4 cups quick oats
  1 (6-ounce) package semi-sweet chocolate chips
  ⅔ cup Skippy creamy or chunk style peanut butter

Grease 1 (13 × 9 × 2-inch) baking pan. Blend margarine and sugars
in mixing bowl. Stir in corn syrup and vanilla, mixing well. Mix in
oats. Pat dough into bottom of prepared pan, moistening hands to
prevent sticking. Bake in 350°F. (moderate) oven 20 to 25 minutes.
Cool slightly. Melt chocolate chips and peanut butter over boiling
water, stirring constantly. Spread over baked layer. Chill to set
chocolate. Cut into bars. Makes about 6 dozen (3 × ½-inch) bars.


10-Minute Fudge

  3 (1-ounce) squares unsweetened chocolate
  ¼ cup Mazola or Nucoa margarine
  4½ cups (1 pound) sifted confectioners sugar
  ⅓ cup instant nonfat dry milk
  ½ cup Karo light or dark corn syrup
  1 tablespoon water
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  ½ cup chopped nuts (optional)

Grease 1 (8 × 8 × 2-inch) pan. Melt chocolate and margarine in top
of 2-quart double boiler over hot water. Meanwhile sift together
confectioners’ sugar and dry milk. Stir corn syrup, water and vanilla
into chocolate margarine mixture. Stir in sifted sugar and dry milk
in two additions. Continue stirring until mixture is well blended and
smooth. Remove from heat; stir in nuts. Turn into prepared pan. Cool.
Cut into squares. Makes 1¾ pounds.

Quick Peanut Butter Fudge: Follow recipe for 10-Minute Fudge using
light corn syrup and omitting chocolate. Melt ⅓ cup Skippy creamy or
chunk style peanut butter with margarine.

[Illustration: flowers]


Old Fashioned Chocolate Fudge

  3 tablespoons Mazola or Nucoa margarine
  3 cups sugar
  2 tablespoons Karo light or dark corn syrup
  2 (1-ounce) squares unsweetened chocolate
  ¾ cup milk
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  1 cup walnuts, coarsely chopped (optional)

Grease 1 (8 × 8 × 2-inch) pan. Place margarine, sugar, corn syrup,
chocolate and milk in a heavy 3-quart saucepan. Cook over medium
heat, stirring constantly, until mixture boils. Continue cooking,
stirring occasionally until temperature reaches (238°F.) or until
a small amount of mixture dropped in cold water forms a soft ball.
Remove from heat. Add vanilla. Cool to lukewarm (110°F.). Beat until
fudge begins to thicken and loses its gloss. Fold in nuts. Quickly
pour into prepared pan. For best results do not spread fudge or
scrape out of pan. When cold, cut in squares. Makes 2 pounds.


Salt Water Taffy

  1 cup sugar
  2 tablespoons Argo corn starch
  ¾ cup Karo light corn syrup
  ½ cup water
  ½ teaspoon salt
  2 tablespoons Nucoa or Mazola margarine
  2 teaspoons vanilla

Grease 9 × 9 × 2-inch cake pan. Mix sugar and corn starch in 1½-quart
saucepan. Stir in corn syrup, water and salt. Add margarine. Cook
over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture boils and sugar
is completely dissolved. Continue cooking, without stirring, until
temperature reaches 260°F., or until a small amount of mixture
dropped into very cold water, forms a ball which is hard enough to
hold its shape, yet plastic. Remove from heat. Stir in vanilla. Pour
into prepared pan. Let stand until cool enough to handle. Pull with
fingers until it has satin-like finish and light color. Pull into
long strips, ½ inch wide. Cut 1-inch pieces with scissors. Wrap in
waxed paper. Makes about 1 pound.

[Illustration: flowers]


Peanut Brittle

  1 cup Karo light or dark corn syrup
  1 cup sugar
  ¼ cup water
  2 tablespoons Mazola or Nucoa margarine
  1½ cups salted peanuts
  1 teaspoon baking soda

Combine corn syrup, sugar, water and margarine in heavy 2-quart
saucepan. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly until sugar
is dissolved and mixture comes to boil. Continue cooking without
stirring until temperature reaches 280°F. or until a small amount of
mixture dropped into very cold water separates into threads which are
hard but not brittle. Gradually stir in salted peanuts so mixture
continues to boil. Cook, stirring frequently, until temperature
reaches 300°F. or until small amount of mixture dropped into very
cold water separates into threads which are hard and brittle.
Remove from heat. Add baking soda; blend quickly, but thoroughly.
Immediately turn onto heavily greased baking sheet. Spread mixture
evenly to edges of baking sheet with a greased metal spatula. Cool.
Break into pieces. Makes 1½ pounds.


Caramel Chocolate Skrunch

  2 cups corn flakes
  1 cup crisp rice cereal
  ½ cup semi-sweet chocolate chips
  1 cup broken nuts
  ¾ cup Karo dark corn syrup
  ¼ cup sugar
  2 tablespoons Mazola or Nucoa margarine
  ½ teaspoon vanilla

Cut top off of 1-quart milk carton. Combine cereals, chocolate chips
and nuts in large bowl; set aside. Combine dark corn syrup, sugar and
margarine in saucepan. Stirring constantly, bring to full boil over
medium heat and boil 3 minutes. Remove from heat. Cool 10 minutes.
Add vanilla. Beat mixture with wooden spoon until mixture turns a
light brown and thickens. Pour over cereal mixture. Toss to coat
evenly. Press firmly into milk carton. Chill 1 to 2 hours or until
set. Loosen with spatula and slip out of carton. (Does not require
refrigeration after loaf is set.) Makes about 1 pound.

To Make Free Form Shapes: Do not press mixture into milk carton. Cool
about 15 minutes, then shape as desired.

Butterscotch Skrunch: Follow recipe for Caramel Chocolate Skrunch,
substituting ½ cup butterscotch chips for chocolate chips.

Mocha Skrunch: Follow recipe for Caramel Chocolate Skrunch, adding 1
tablespoon instant coffee powder to syrup mixture before boiling.

Peanut And Raisin Skrunch: Follow recipe for Caramel Chocolate
Skrunch, substituting ½ cup raisins for chocolate chips, 1 cup
chopped peanuts for broken nuts, and adding 1 teaspoon cinnamon to
syrup mixture before boiling.

Peanut Butter Skrunch: Follow recipe for Caramel Chocolate Skrunch,
increasing rice cereal to 2 cups, omitting nuts and adding ½ cup
chunk style peanut butter to syrup with flavoring. If desired, almond
extract may be substituted for vanilla.


  For
  additional
  copies
  write to:

  Consumer Service Department
  Best Foods, a Division of
  CPC International Inc.
  International Plaza
  Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey 07632

[Illustration: =cpc= ® International]

  2946-73-3D  PRINTED IN U.S.A.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 71160 ***
